The supplementary material for our paper ["Divide and Conquer Divide-and-Conquer -- Inductive Synthesis for D&C-Like Algorithmic Paradigms"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.12193). This repository includes our implementation of *AutoLifter* and our evaluation results. 

**Source Code**

Our source code is organized as follows.

| Directory |               Description                |
| :-------: | :--------------------------------------: |
|  `basic`  | Those basic data structures required to describe a synthesis task, such as values (`values`), semantics (`semantics`), and programs (`program`). |
|   `exp`   | Tasks used in our evaluation, where `benchmark.json` lists the tasks corresponding to each algorithmic problem, `divide_and_conquer` defines tasks of D&C and single-pass, and `longest_segment` and `segment_tree` defines tasks of the longest segment problem and segment trees, respectively. |
|  `hfta`   | The re-implementation of `Relish` for solving lifting problems. |
| `polygen` | The external synthesizer *PolyGen* for synthesizing combinators. |
| `solver`  | *AutoLifter* and the other baseline synthesizers considered in our evaluation.  For *AutoLifter*, `complete_solver` and `enumerate_base_solver` implement the decomposition algorithm and observational covering, respectively. Besides, `brute_force_complete_solver` re-implements *ESolver*, and `pure_observational_equivalence` implements the baseline solver *AutoLifter*$_{\text{OE}}$ in our ablation study. |

**Evaluation Results**

All evaluation results are stored in folder `run`. The results reported in our paper can be generated by running `python3 script.py` under this folder.

The task-wise performance of each solver is summarized in `result_cache/*.json`, where the synthesis status (fail or success), the time cost, and the number of used auxiliary values (as `lift_num`, only for those solvers solving lifting problems) are recorded. 

The detailed outputs of *AutoLifter* are provided in `oup/AutoLifter`, where sub-folders `dad`, `listr`, `seg` and `ds` corresponds to D&C, single-pass, longest segment problems, and segment tree, respectively. The synthesis result of *AutoLifter* is printed at the end of each file, taking `dac/2ndmin` (our motivating example) as an example.

```haskell
x0: (2nd-min Param0)
Liftings:
  x1: (minimum Param0)
Combinator for tree
  x0: ite (r0<=l1) (r0) (ite (l0<=r1) (l0) (ite (l1<=r1) (r1) (l1)))
  x1: ite (l1<=r1) (l1) (r1)
```

The synthesis results are printed in the following format.

1. $x_0$ represents the original program, where `Param0` is the input list. Here, the original program calculates the second minimum of the input list, where the definition of `2nd-min` can be found in `exp/divide_and_conquer.cpp`.

2. $x_k (k \geq 1)$ in item `Liftings` describes the $i$th auxiliary value found by *AutoLifter*, where `Param0` is the input list. Here, there is only a single auxiliary value, which calculates the minimum of the input list.

3. $x_k(k \geq 0)$ in item `Combinator` describes the combinator synthesized by *AutoLifter* for each value under concern, where $x_0$ represents the output of the original program, and $x_k (k \geq 1)$ represents the $k$th auxiliary value. Possible inputs of the combionator includes $l_i, r_i$, and $a$, where $l_i$ represents the $i$th value calculated on the first input list of *op*, $r_i$ represents the $i$th value calculated on the second input list of *op*, and $a$ represents the auxiliary input of *op*.

   Here, the inputs of the combinator includes $l_0, l_1, r_0$, and $r_1$. They corresponding to the second minimum and the first minimum of the left half list and the counterparts of the second half list, respectively. 

